Add GitHub Copilot use case to serialize JSON (#42357)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/serialization/system-text-json/how-to.md

  - "serialization"
  - "objects, serializing"
ms.topic: how-to
ms.collection: ce-skilling-ai-copilot
ms.custom: vs-copilot-horizontal
adobe-target: true
---

# How to write .NET objects as JSON (serialize)

This article shows how to use the <xref:System.Text.Json?displayProperty=fullName> namespace to serialize to JavaScript Object Notation (JSON). If you're porting existing code from `Newtonsoft.Json`, see [How to migrate to `System.Text.Json`](migrate-from-newtonsoft.md).

>[!Tip]
>You can use AI assistance to [serialize to JSON with GitHub Copilot](#use-github-copilot-to-serialize-to-json).

To write JSON to a string or to a file, call the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer.Serialize%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> method.

> ## Use GitHub Copilot to serialize to JSON

Reviewer: I know we are trying to promote the use of Copilot, but I think this section should be last in this article. The article is about teaching someone how to serialize, not immediately showing them a way to serialize without having to learn what it even looks like and what the different options are. That way the related content links will be more relevant to the section as well. We already have the tip on line 24 if readers want to go straight to using copilot.

Author: > I know we are trying to promote the use of Copilot, but I think this section should be last in this article. The article is about teaching someone how to serialize, not immediately showing them a way to serialize without having to learn what it even looks like and what the different options are. That way the related content links will be more relevant to the section as well. We already have the tip on line 24 if readers want to go straight to using copilot.

Thanks @gewarren for the review and feedback. It's not just about promoting Copilot, but essentially incorporating Copilot in user workflows to showcase Copilot usage scenarios in a variety of different ways. The idea is to show users different use cases for Copilot in existing workflows. How do you feel about adding it to Serialization examples section? 
cc: @mijacobs

Reviewer 2: I think keeping it here is fine as long as it is kept as a short note that links to the instructions either on the bottom of this page or a different article.

Reviewer 3: I don't really think of the copilot instructions as an example... I think having it be the last section can make sense, but I worry about the discoverability of the section because of the sub-optimal UI for "In this article"/right rail. So if we move it to the end, could we add a jump link to the intro? Something like "(You can also use Copilot to generate serialization code for you--for instructions, see the Use Copliot section in this article.)

Reviewer: We already have this very near the top of the page, so I don't think we need to add anything else to the intro.

<img width="455" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3f22a05f-0fda-4595-9b21-6031add55f71">

You can use GitHub Copilot in your IDE to generate code that uses `System.Text.Json` to serialize to JSON.

> If you're using [Visual Studio 2022 version 17.8 or later](/visualstudio/releases/2022/release-notes), you can try the AI-driven [GitHub Copilot in Visual Studio](/visualstudio/ide/visual-studio-github-copilot-install-and-states) to generate code to use `System.Text.Json` to serialize to JSON. Submit your question as a prompt in the copilot chat window, as in the following example. You can also submit prompts using [inline chat](/visualstudio/ide/visual-studio-github-copilot-chat#ask-questions-in-the-inline-chat-view) in the editor window itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using [Visual Studio 2022 version 17.8 or later](/visualstudio/releases/2022/release-notes), you can try the AI-driven [GitHub Copilot in Visual Studio](/visualstudio/ide/visual-studio-github-copilot-install-and-states) to generate code that uses `System.Text.Json` to serialize to JSON. Submit your question as a prompt in the Copilot chat window, as in the following example. You can also submit prompts using [inline chat](/visualstudio/ide/visual-studio-github-copilot-chat#ask-questions-in-the-inline-chat-view) in the editor window itself.
```

>[!NOTE]
>GitHub Copilot is powered by AI, so surprises and mistakes are possible. Make sure to verify any generated code or suggestions. For more information about the general use of GitHub Copilot, product impact, human oversight, and privacy, see [GitHub Copilot FAQs](https://github.com/features/copilot#faq).

**Example prompt for Copilot Chat**

```
Generate code to use `System.Text.Json` to serialize an object to a JSON string. The object contains the following fields: FirstName (string), Lastname (string), Age (int). Provide example output.
```

You can customize the prompt to use object fields that suit your requirements.

**Example Copilot Chat response**

```output
Sure! Below is an example of how to use System.Text.Json to serialize an object with the specified fields to a JSON string in C#:

> to a JSON string in C#.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/how-to/csharp/SerializeWithGenericParameter.cs" highlight="23":::
:::code language="vb" source="snippets/how-to/vb/RoundtripToString.vb" id="SerializeWithGenericParameter":::

> You can also use GitHub Copilot to generate serialization code for you. For instructions, see the [Use GitHub Copliot](#use-github-copilot-to-serialize-to-json) section in this article.

Reviewer: I didn't fully notice this before. Do we really need a tip on both line 24 and line 53? Also there's a spelling mistake in Copliot.

Author: Fixed typo, thanks for catching that. With the code snippets in between in the article, the mention again doesn't seem too close to each other. Also, here it's mentioned in the context of where to use it. The one in the intro is general tip.

**Example Copilot Chat response**

```output
Sure! Below is an example of how to use System.Text.Json to serialize an object with the specified fields to a JSON string in C#:

using System;
using System.Text.Json;

public class Person
{
    public string FirstName { get; set; }
    public string LastName { get; set; }
    public int Age { get; set; }
}

public class Program
{
    public static void Main()
    {
        var person = new Person
        {
            FirstName = "John",
            LastName = "Doe",
            Age = 30
        };

        string jsonString = JsonSerializer.Serialize(person);
        Console.WriteLine(jsonString);
    }
}

**Example Output**
{"FirstName":"John","LastName":"Doe","Age":30}

This code defines a `Person` class, creates an instance of it, and then serializes it to a JSON string using `JsonSerializer.Serialize`. The resulting JSON string is then printed to the console.
```

When Copilot returns a code block, the response includes options to copy the code, insert the code into a new file, or preview the code output.

> Note that your results might be different from what is shown in the example responses. AI models are non-deterministic, which means that they can return different responses when asked the same question. This might be due to additional learning and adaption over time, language variation, changes in context, such as your chat history, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> Your results might be different from what's shown in the example responses. AI models are non-deterministic, which means that they can return different responses when asked the same question. This might be due to additional learning and adaption over time, language variation, changes in context, such as your chat history, and more.
```

> [!TIP]
> If you use `JsonSerializerOptions` repeatedly with the same options, don't create a new `JsonSerializerOptions` instance each time you use it. Reuse the same instance for every call. For more information, see [Reuse JsonSerializerOptions instances](configure-options.md#reuse-jsonserializeroptions-instances).

> ## Related content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Related content

```

> [GitHub Copilot Trust Center](https://resources.github.com/copilot-trust-center/)

Reviewer: These need to be bulleted so they show up on separate lines.
